Hi there. This is a video on the
history command and some other associated commands that
go along with your bash shell on the
Unix system. And I'm just going to show
you how to see some of the previous
commands that you've used and to actually use
them efficiently. So if you type history, I'm
logged into the myth computer here. If you
type history, you can see that there lists
out all bunch of whole whole bunch of
different commands, about 5,000 plus commands that you
may have typed. And it keeps all those
in a little file that you are able
to access. So you can do that with
the history command. Some of the other interesting
things you can do, you can use the
arrow keys. So I'm right now typing the
up arrow key and if I keep typing
the up arrow key, it goes back through
my various commands and I can just keep
going back all the way. If I hit
the down arrow key, now I'm hitting the
down arrow key, it goes forward. So I
can go up arrow key, down arrow key,
up arrow key, down arrow key, etcetera. And
then instead of having to go and type
command again because you'll end up doing that
many many times on the system, you can
just use the arrow keys to quickly go
back to the last command or the last
couple commands ago, etcetera. So that's one way
to get to your previous command. Another one
is to type the exclamation point, also known
as the bang character. Type the exclamation point
and then if you type a if you
type the exclamation point it actually just doesn't
do anything. But if you type the exclamation
point with a character, it will go back
to the character or the command that started
using that most recently used that starting character.
So in fact, if you look 5,003 on
here, I typed the clear command. So if
I type exclamation point c, it will actually
type the clear command for me. Okay? That's
not the best example in the world, but
let's do let's do pwd. So if I
do exclamation point p, it will go back
and type the pwd command. So that's a
nice thing if you've run a previous command
and you know that the last command you
ran started with a particular character, you can,
type that character there. Okay? So it's nice
to, to use, if you wanna go back
and you happen to know that you've used
that command recently. So that's a a nice
way to do it. One that I happen
to really like is if you type control
r, so I'm holding down the control button
and clicking r, it's a reverse search. So
if I start typing p, it will go
back and say, hey, look, p is p
w d is the last command that used
p and if I keep keep typing w
it'll continue in there. You can use the
arrow keys to go back, I can type
l, it happens to be the l in
clear, it's picking up first, but if I
type l s then it will go back
to the last l s command. Let's see
if I have there we go. L 0
7. I typed a space and it actually
fills it in for you and you can
go backwards relatively easy there. And in fact,
if I do now, if I do the
right arrow key, I'm able to actually modify
the command too. So if I wanted to
do something like that, I could and I
could change it. So those are a few
different ways to use the history command and
you'll use them all the time to save
yourself time on the system. Thanks.